<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Installing Tailwind CSS 

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/2OXU"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/2OXU</a></div>

> >

Tailwind isn't for beginners, it requires some tools in order to work with your projects.


---

# Getting Ready

- [PostCSS](https://postcss.org/) Plugin
- [npm, npx](https://nodejs.org/en/) Node Package Manager
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) version control
- Build Tools: [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), [Gulp](https://gulpjs.com/), etc.



**Search for:** [PostCSS](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/search?keywords=postcss), [npm](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/search?keywords=npm) or [Gulp.js](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/search?keywords=gulp.js) on LinkedIn Learning

> >

Tailwind is a PostCSS plugin. Post CSS lets you transform CSS using JavaScript. You might recognize it as the project that runs AutoPrefixer, which automatically adds prefixes like -moz or -webkit to CSS so it supports older browsers.

You're going to need NPM, the node package manager. That's bundled when you install Node.js. Node helps you create a project and install modules, which are like plugins. One more tool that you get when using node is npx, which is a package runner that lets you run node.js without hav

Since this project requires build tools, I suggest you also get a copy of Git and that you're familiar with it before taking this course. If you're on a PC, you may want to install the Gitbash terminal so that you can run the linux commands I'll be using. Otherwise, you can use powershell, hyper or some other terminal app.

Speaking of which, you're going to need a way to run all these tools, so you can use something like webpack or gulp. In this course, we'll be working with a Gulp.js process.

If you need help working with these tools, do a search for PostCSS, NPM and Gulp in the library. Otherwise, if you're comfortable with these pre-requisites, let's do this.

---

# Using a CDN

```
<link href="https://unpkg.com/tailwindcss@^2/dist/tailwind.min.css" rel="stylesheet">
```

- No customization
- No plugins
- No tree shaking

> >

There's another way you can use Tailwind, and that's through the CDN, or content delivery network link. We'll be using that in this course, when I want to give you quick examples to try.

Unfortunately, this version of Tailwind isn't as customizable as the regular version. It's fine for learning and playing, but not really working.

You can't use third party plugins with this version, so it makes tailwind harder to extend.

Finally, some tools can work to remove the css parts of tailwind you don't need. That's called tree-shaking and a CDN link can't do that.

---

# Extensions for VSCode

- [PostCSS Language Support](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=cpylua.language-postcss)
- [Tailwind CSS IntelliSense](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss)
- [Tailwind Docs](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=austenc.tailwind-docs)

> >
Here's a few Visual Studio Code extensions you might consider installing. 

First is one that should be pretty obvious and that's intellisense for VS Code. That's so that you get recommendations as you type code.

The second is a quick way to get to the documentation. You can find these in the Visual Studio Marketplace, or directly under extensions in Visual Studio Code.

---

# Installing Dependencies

```bash
npm init -y
npm i postcss autoprefixer tailwindcss gulp gulp-postcss browser-sync
```

> >

To get things going, we're going to need to create a `package.json` file. The easiest way to do that is to run an `npm init -y` command. That will create one for us with the defaults.

I'm going to update the `package.json` file license to point to our LinkedIn license, but you can delete everything else after keywords, just make sure you don't get rid of that last curly brace.

Let's also edit the scripts section and change debug to `"start": "gulp"`

Then, we'll need to install some modules. Tailwind CSS is a postcss plugin, so we'll need postcss and we'll also install the autoprefixer to add support for older browsers. Of course we'll need Tailwind CSS as well as some tools to run things. We're using gulp and we'll need the gulp-postcss module. Finally, we'll add browser-sync for live reloading.



---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-longcode" -->

# Create a **gulpfile.js**

```[1-7|9-20|22-26|28-36|38-39]
const gulp = require("gulp"),
  browserSync = require("browser-sync").create(),
  postcss = require("gulp-postcss"),
  source = "./src/",
  dest = "./build/";

function html() {
  return gulp.src(dest + "**/*.html");
}

function styles() {
  return gulp
    .src(source + "**/*.css")
    .pipe(postcss([require("tailwindcss"), require("autoprefixer")]))
    .pipe(gulp.dest(dest));
}

function watch() {
  gulp.watch(source + "css/**/*.css", styles).on("change", browserSync.reload);
  gulp.watch(dest + "index.html", html).on("change", browserSync.reload);
  gulp
    .watch(
      ["./tailwind.config.js", "./postcss.config.js", "./gulpfile.js"],
      styles
    )
    .on("change", browserSync.reload);
}

function server() {
  browserSync.init({
    notify: false,
    server: {
      baseDir: dest,
    },
  });
  watch();
}

var build = gulp.series(gulp.parallel(styles, html), server, watch);
gulp.task("default", build);

```

**Search for:** [Gulp.js](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/search?keywords=gulp.js) on LinkedIn Learning

> >
Let's go over what's happening here. 

First, we're creating some variables to import our modules into and set up the source and destinations for our projects.

Then, we're creating a couple of tasks functions to manage processing our Styles and HTML when we make changes. 

There's a couple of special tasks, so for example, our watch task monitors changes we make to either our html or our css file.

The server task sets up our live server and points it to the proper directory.

Finally, the last two lines set up the master task you can execute with npm and runs it as the default. That's so that when we run the npm start command, we're running this task.

By the way, if you need more help understanding gulp tasks, search for gulp in the library.

---

# Config files

```bash
npx tailwindcss init -p
```

> >

Tailwind uses configuration files to set up and modify how it works. You'll need to create at least a basic one and you can do that with this command. The -p option also creates a `postcss.config.js` file, which is the same thing for postcss.

---
<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-longcode" -->

# HTML Template

```html
&lt;!DOCTYPE html>
&lt;html lang="en">
&lt;head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/styles.css">
  <title>Tailwind CSS</title>
&lt;/head>
&lt;body>
<!-- Content Starts Here -->

<h1>About Binaryville</h1>
<p>On the edge of the world stands the progressive town of Binaryville, where technology is a way of life. The robots who
live, work, and play in Binaryville learn from an early age that magic is made simply by combining 0's and 1's. For the
Binaryville robots, every waking thought and every sleeping dream is consumed with unique permutations…and endless
possibilities.</p>

<!-- Content Ends Here -->

&lt;/body>
&lt;/html>
```

> >

Here's an html file. Our gulp process expects this to live inside a build folder, so add it there.

---

# PostCSS Starter


```
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

> >

To load up the proper parts of Tailwind, we'll also need a postcss starter file. Out `index.html` is looking for a file called `styles.css`, so we'll create that inside a `src/css` folder

Now that we're done setting up our template, it's time to run our automation. From the terminal run  `npm start`.

Now, this is probably the most underwhelming HTML page, you've ever seen. The styles couldn't be more boring. More about that in the next video.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" data-transition="zoom" class="bg-dark"-->

# Practice

<div class="btn-group mt-3" role="group" aria-label="Basic example">
  <a type="button" class="animate__animated animate__backInRight animate__slow btn btn-lg btn-primary text-white" href="https://github.com/LinkedInLearning/tailwind-css-2841311/tree/01_01e" target="_blank">Github Repo</a>
</div>

1. Looked at installation options
1. Installed Tailwind CSS and dependencies
1. Created config files
1. Added CSS and HTML templates

> >

Here's what we did and where you can find the code in Github. Remember that the code is always at `raybo.org/slides_tailwind`